=head1 NAME

MojoX::Tusu - Apache-like dispatcher for Mojolicious

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    sub startup {
        ....

        use MojoX::Tusu;
        my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
        
        # following is optional
        
        $tusu->document_root($self->home->rel_dir('www2'));
        $tusu->extensions_to_render([qw(html htm xml txt)]);
        
        # initialize Text::PSTemplate if necessary
        
        my $plugin_instance = $tusu->plug('some_plugin');
        $tusu->engine->set_...();
        $tusu->plug('Your::Component', 'YC');
        
        $r->route('/specific/path')->to(cb => sub {
            $tusu->bootstrap($_[0], 'Your::Component', 'your_method');
        });
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<MojoX::Tusu> is a sub framework on Mojolicious using Text::PSTemplate
for renderer. With this framework, you can deploy directory based web sites
onto Mojolicious at once.

This framework automatically activate own dispatcher which behaves like apache
web server. You can build your web site into single document root directory
named public_html in hierarchal structure. The document root directory can
contain both server-parsed-documents and static files such as images.

MojoX::Tusu doesn't require files to be named like index.html.ep style but just
like index.html. You can specify which files to be server parsable by telling
it the extensions. It also provides some more apache-like features such as
directory_index, error_document and file permissions checking.

One of the intent of this module is to enhance existing static websites into
dynamic with minimal effort. The chances are that most typical website data are
transplantable with no change at all.

=head2 Installation

    $ sudo -s 'curl -L cpanmin.us | perl - Mojolicious'
    $ curl -L cpanmin.us | perl - https://github.com/jamadam/Text-PSTemplate/tarball/master/v0.33
    $ curl -L cpanmin.us | perl - https://github.com/jamadam/MojoX-Tusu/tarball/master/v0.22

=head2 Getting Started

    $ mojo generate tusu_app MyApp
    $ cd ./my_app
    $ prove
    $ ./script/my_app daemon
    Server available at http://127.0.0.1:3000.

=head2 Template Syntax

See L<https://github.com/jamadam/Text-PSTemplate> for detail.

In addition to Text::PSTemplate's default syntax, MojoX::Tusu provides short cut
for html escaping as follows

    <% $var %> normal
    <%= $var %> escaped
    <%= some_func(...) %> escaped

=head2 Components & Plugins

Mojo::Tusu provides object oriented component & plugin framework. You can
easily add your custom features into your website. The following is an example
for plugin development.

    <span><% questionize('Hello') %></span>

To make it possible, you should write a module like this. 

    package MyUtility;
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use base 'MojoX::Tusu::PluginBase';
    
    sub questionize : TplExport {
        my ($self, $sentence) = @_;
        my $c = $self->controller; # mojolicious controller in case you need
        return $sentence . '?';
    }

To activate this plugin, you must plug-in this at mojolicious startup method.

    sub startup {
        my $self = shift;
        my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
        $tusu->plug('YourUtility', ''); ## second argument is the namespace
    }

The following is an example for component development.

    <div id="productContainer">
        <% Product::list_by_category('books', 10) %>
    </div>

To make it possible, you should write a module like this.

    package Product;
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use base 'MojoX::Tusu::ComponentBase';
    
    sub init {
        my ($self, $app) = @_;
        $self->set_ini({...}); ### DB SETTING OR SOMETHING
    }
    
    sub list_by_category : TplExport {
        my ($self, $category, $limit) = @_;
        my $c = $self->controller; # mojolicious controller in case you need
        
        # MAY BE ACCESS TO YOUR DB HERE
        
        return $html_snippet;
    }

To activate this component, you must plug-in this at mojolicious startup method.

    sub startup {
        my $self = shift;
        my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
        $tusu->plug('Product');
    }

The only difference between plugins and components is that components can have
an init method to have own data.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 MojoX::Tusu->new($app)

Constructor. This method takes Mojolicious app for argument and returns
MojoX::Tusu instance.
    
    $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($app)

=head2 $instance->document_root($directory)

This method sets root directory for templates and static files. Following
example is default setting.
    
    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($app);
    $tusu->document_root($self->home->rel_dir('public_html'));

=head2 $instance->directory_index($candidate1 [, $candidate2])

This method sets default file names for searching files in directory when
the request path doesn't ended with file name. And this setting also affects to
inside template context such as include('path') function. Following example is
the default setting.

    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($app);
    $tusu->directory_index(['index.html', 'index.htm']);

=head2 $instance->engine

This returns Text::PSTemplate instance. You can customize the template system
behavior by calling parser methods directly.
    
    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($app);
    my $pst = $tusu->engine;
    $pst->set_delimiter('<!--', '-->');

=head2 $instance->plug($plug_name, [$namespace])

This is a delegate method for Text::PSTemplate->plug just for hooking
init method for components. All arguments are thrown at
Text::PSTemplate->plug.

    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
    $tusu->plug('Text::PSTemplate::Plugin::HTML', 'HTML');

You also can plug multiple plugins at once.

    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
    $tusu->plug(
        'Namespace::A' => 'A',   # namespace is A
        'Namespace::B' => '',    # namespace is ''
        'Namespace::C' => undef, # namespace is Namespace::C
    );

=head2 $instance->bootstrap($controller, $component, $method)

This method is a sub dispatcher method. You can specify a class and a method the
route to be dispatched to.

    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
    $r->route('/some/path')->via('post')->to(cb => sub {
        $tusu->bootstrap($c, 'Your::Component', 'post');
    });

=head2 $instance->extensions_to_render($array_ref)

This method sets the extensions to be parsed by tusu renderer. If request
doesn't match any of extensions, dispatcher try to render it as static file.
Following setting is the default.

    my $tusu = MojoX::Tusu->new($self);
    $tusu->extensions_to_render(['html','htm','xml'])

=head2 $instance->error_document($hash_ref)

This method setup custom error pages like apache's ErrorDocument.

    $instance->error_document({
        404 => '/errors/404.html',
        403 => '/errors/403.html',
        500 => '/errors/405.html',
    })

=head2 $instance->encoding($encoding)

This method sets encoding for template files. Array ref causes auto detection
active.

	$tusu->encoding('Shift-JIS');
	$tusu->encoding(['Shift-JIS', 'utf8']);

=head1 What does Tusu mean?

Tusu means mojo in Ainu languages which is spoken by the native inhabitants of
Hokkaido prefecture, Japan.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Text::PSTemplate>

L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ainu_languages>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sugama Keita, E<lt>sugama@jamadam.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 by Sugama Keita.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
